{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl259\slmult1\sa160

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Mention Pakeman 2014 when referring to data density table in methods.\
\
Functional dispersion, defined as the mean distance of individual species to the centroid of all species in the community, represents an improvement on this framework (Laliberte & Legendre 2010). This  metric allows for consideration of species abundances while integrating functional richness and functional divergence, and is independent of species richness by construction, alleviating concerns that it merely tracks patterns of species richness. \
Functional dispersion is also known to more robust to bias due to missing trait data than metrics such as functional richness, evenness or divergence (Pakeman 2014). \
\
\
We used the 
\i dbFD
\i0  function from the FD package for R (Lalibert\'e9 & Legendre 2010) to calculate 
\b abundance-weighted 
\b0 functional dispersion (FDis).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl480\slmult1\sa160\qj
\cf0 The utility of functional diversity metrics depends on their ability to provide non-redundant information compared with measures of taxonomic diversity. To this end we further tested relationships (using OLS regression) between FDis and species richness and Simpson diversity (for species used in the analysis, present at > 1 % cover), and species richness for the full set of 327 species identified in the study. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl259\slmult1\sa160
\cf0 \
\
LANDSCAPE SCALE PATTERNS IN PLANT SPECIES RICHNESS ALONG AN ARCTIC RIVER\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 Sites with the lowest richness were those in the upper reaches of the river, with richness generally increasing downstream. Variation in richness along the river is correlated with increasing environmental heterogeneity (
\i r
\i0\fs20 \super 2
\fs24 \nosupersub \uc0\u8194 =\u8194 0.598, 
\i P
\i0 \uc0\u8194 =\u8194 0.0003), calculated as an index summarizing the range of site-level variation in a set of components including substrate type and texture, topographic variation (slope and aspect), relative surface area, substrate moisture, and soil pH.
\f0\fs22 \cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\sl259\slmult1\sa160
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nrcresearchpress.com/doi/abs/10.1139/b97-889"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.nrcresearchpress.com/doi/abs/10.1139/b97-889}}\
\
WHAT DOES HIGH FUNCTIONAL DISPERSION MEAN?\
"For a given number of\
species, assemblages with higher functional trait dispersion\
(i.e. overdispersion) are expected to result in\
greater ecosystem adaptability, but they will also\
show greater vulnerability since any species loss will\
result in the loss of more functions. High functional\
dispersion is promoted by ecological processes and\
environmental conditions that enhance differentiation\
among coexisting species, such as interspecific\
competition, favoring of niche segregation, or environmental\
heterogeneity, selecting for species adap -\
ted to different habitats" - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.int-res.com/articles/meps_oa/m495p205.pdf"}}{\fldrslt http://www.int-res.com/articles/meps_oa/m495p205.pdf}}\
- see Mouchet 2010 about how useful different FD metrics are for finding out various things (e.g. limiting similarity, niche differentiation etc.)\
- find paper about FD and resilience\
\
\
\
\
\
Community mean WD showed similar relationships with measures of hydrological variability - this is a bit different because the whole distribution of a trait shifted. \
- I'm actually not really sure how to make this relevant. \
FD patterns were not dependent on SD for species used to calculate FD, although there was a relationship when all species at a site were included. So at some level, perhaps having a broad species pool actually does facilitate higher functional diversity within the flora that are actually dominating the community. Even though the richness of the dominant group of species itself does not necessarily determine functional diversity. \
\
PARA ABOUT FD LITERATURE FROM DIFFERENT SYSTEMS\
PARA ABOUT WHAT DOES HIGH FDIS MEAN?\
- resilience?\
- or add to last para\
\
\
}